hey brian hey everyone hey well very excited to be here on tuesday the 13th
tuesday yeah it is yeah i mean you know about all the different like horror movies and stuff like
nightmare on elm street tuesday the 13th all these things so let's kick it off with not scary stuff
right yeah it's a little premature premature yeah exactly i don't know what the cycle date
is till this hurts hits for friday the 13th but yeah then we then we can worry about it yeah yeah
all right let's do it hello and welcome to python vice we deliver python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds this is episode 396 recorded august 13 2024. i'm michael kennedy and i'm brian
and this episode is brought to you by scout apm thank you to scout for their continued support of
the show check out their link in the show notes we'll tell you more about them later
if you want to follow us on the socials you can find us all over on mastodon links at the top of
the show notes and we are on x although less active than we are on mastodon i would say i'm gonna catch
the live show you can do that at pythonbytes.fm/live and takes you either to the old ones or
lets you know about the new one if it's running right there so we appreciate when people are there but
audio is always always works as well brian how you doing i'm good um yeah i didn't i didn't know we were
still on x but well you're an ex here's the thing oh see you're not on x anymore okay did you actually
delete your account i have an account but i check it like every other month or something like that so i
still get notifications if people will at mention me okay i'll see it but i it's kind of the same thing
i don't like drop in and cruise through there as much the pro i'd be happy on mastodon but there's
just i would say 75 percent of the people that follow us interact with us at least through the
show account probably i didn't make the transition so okay i should pay attention more so still there for
them yeah we're still there for them okay good that that's all i meant by okay all right well
let's kick it off with your first item okay i want to talk i think i already i covered uv uh a uv article
yesterday a lot yeah well it's the summer time you got to be real careful about your uv index and yeah
oh wait no not that i love oh my god we could put together a uv index it'd be like the uh
that that would be awesome um anyway so uh i saw this article python packaging is great now uv
is all you need and i'm like i don't know it seems like a little silver bulletish for me
um but i took a look at it anyway this is uh uh from juan luis cano rodriguez awesome name and
cool profile picture anyway um so uv what is we like to bash on packaging but it's it it's just
continually getting better and um and uh especially with people like brett cannon trying to continue to
make it better it's going to and people at uv um at astral making uv better but what so what is this about
this article i i didn't really want to completely cover the article but there's some pretty cool stuff
here so uh bootstrapping getting a project started is difficult sometimes uh or knowing what to do and
and i've been using uh uv for making virtual environments but um and it's really fast at that
but i took a little another look at it there's been some updates that i didn't know it did some some cool
stuff so one of the highlights here is um uh uv python it manages python versions and i'm like what
it does what um so i went and checked it out uh and you can so you don't even have to so you can go down and say
uv python install and it installs python versions for you and it's really fast but you don't have to um and i'll tell you why in just a sec uh you can um
you can install it like that but you can also say uv python list and it lists all the python versions that
it can find on your system but uh if you say uv uh v e n v so creating a virtual environment you can give it a
python flag with a with a number so you can do list to add a time and it tells you not only what versions are
there but also what versions it has available um so you can uh you can say like if you don't have 3.11
on your system you can say 3.11 anyway and it'll install it um i'm like does that really work so i checked
it out i tried it uh i personally it it said that it would just do it automatically um if it wasn't there
but i had to add the python there's a flag called python preference managed and it's listed here
somewhere uh anyway python preference managed uh python preference and then you can say uv managed
only managed or managed system or only system gotcha awesome yeah um yeah python preference and but if you
say managed um which is supposedly the default but i had to pass it in anyway it just does it so i i'm
like this is cool and i installed like six versions of python on my uh on my mac yesterday in seconds um
and just just to have fun to create virtual environments and and uh it's just neat so i only really need a
python with i usually use python within virtual environments so being able to just install one into
a virtual environment is cool um so uh what what else can we do so the there's uh other things that uh
uv can do that like it it can initialize uh pyproject.toml for you and it sets up if you do a knit it sets
up pyproject.toml and a readme and a source layout it doesn't do a lot but it gets you started um the the
thing that i thought was neat is add so you can add the dependencies to your pyproject.toml with uv add
and so you don't have to look up the syntax for it the other cool thing about it is you can give it the
dev flag you can say uv add --dev like you can say --dev py test and it'll add py test to your
development dependencies um which is neat so uh i guess i was gonna say packaging is not solved with
uv but maybe maybe it is um there's some pretty cool stuff this is awesome yeah uh if you look up if
you say uv help um there's a whole bunch of experimental um experimental items through here
so there's run a knit add a lot of these are experimental fit features tree is cool you can
do a project dependency tree uh using uv so there's a lot of stuff that i used to use other tools for
that uh uv is doing so kind of cool blocking creating self files self i like it what does self do
manage the uv executable itself oh yeah okay so there was a lot of drama honestly not on our show but on
the mailing lists when this was announced with uv python or uv with uv pip uv pip yeah yeah yeah yeah
and so the reason that charlie and team chose uv pip as part of the cli uh interface as a subcommand
was so that they had space to do all these other things so if you just said uv install
well is that install the python thing is that install a package like right and so they put that in there
as um almost like a namespace for all their commands and stuff and how much new stuff is under
these experimental sections starting to feel like okay this is this is what they had in mind right yeah
yeah so the experimental part like makes me nervous to put it into my normal everyday workflow a little
bit but for personal workflow stuff why not play with it um yeah so i you know as you're going through
this and seeing this title python packaging is great uv is all you need i think it's all i use these days i
don't think i use anything else there are some systems that the whole especially with uh certain
firewalls that i know you can get around it with uv but i've there are some systems that i work on where
i have trouble getting uh we're working with uv but pip works fine so oh interesting okay yeah yeah i have
basically three or four uh maybe four or five aliases that are just like two or three letters
that will do all the company you know like the full commands with with this and that so those used to be
pip commands now they're uv pip with like the different parameters and stuff yeah and i tried so
when uv pip started came i tried to alias pip to uv pip and and and and same with virtual environment but i
realized that i i kind of like control i'd like to be able to to use both so i just sort of taught
myself these uv commands uh yeah yeah sounds good not too hard is it all right well i have a set of
bookends around python versions to start and end the show here so let's start with python 312.5 was out just
last week came out right after the show was released i think so we didn't cover it but
yeah here we have a brand new version of the most recent version python and i just checked by the way
what yeah and i just checked with the uv python list and i think 312.4 is the latest there just to give you a
sense that like one week into it apparently we don't have the latest i was kind of hoping like
that thing would be super cutting edge on top of it so uh but i wonder if i um you know what it's possible
that um my uv is over a week out of date and it doesn't know right something like that i don't know
anyway 312.5 is out and if you scroll through i'm linking to the release notes sometimes it's hard to
find like what has actually changed in say 312.4 to 312.5 because if you go to the if you go to python.org
and click on download a lot of times it'll just show like well here's what's new for 312.5 you're
like great and from the last one that i had to this what was that but if you go you can find the release
notes at which i'm linking to and so there are a lot of releases and changes in just this minor point
release so we've got a bunch of tests that are fixed how about that brian that's great yeah two
different security improvements patches i guess you know they're they're not don't think they have cves
so there must not be too bad but like audit like missing audit events around certain behaviors like okay
so you couldn't audit it properly but it's not it's not a you know all your bases are belong to us sort of
thing um a bunch of stuff in the library so for example a new version of pip so for just a moment
just briefly when you create a virtual environment i won't say your pip is out of date
uh but this things like this fix crash when importing ssl after the main interpreter starts
hmm might want to have that not happen handle value errors raised by os.stat fix some error messages in
pickle here's one that's worth paying attention to fixed a seg fault in uh async io dot task get coroutine
okay you know a lot of times you think of at least i think one of the really huge advantages of python is
when stuff goes wrong your program doesn't just go poof and go away it it reports the error it gives you a
chance to catch it right you like this python itself doesn't die it knows it's something's gone terribly wrong and
it shuts down right but the python c python sec vaults then it just goes poof and goes away
so there's a ton of stuff like this so i just wanted to call call people's attention to all the changes
here and there's even some that look like performance for example what was it uh f strings if you have an f
string that has just one entry into it it i think it used to create an abstract syntax tree to try to build it up and they're like uh not really needed
i needed all that stuff for a single f string our f string was single um entry in it so
um
yeah uh that's going to be a nice performance improvement as well instead of dash how do they
f string it
yeah so anyway these are all good things yeah definitely yeah f strings are getting getting
getting more secure more fast more faster better faster better stronger we have the technology we can
rebuild it okay can you even imagine going back to the time before f strings it was a dark time
it was stark it was a dark time my percent my percent key still has no no uh characters on it no just kidding
yeah yeah indeed okay
and before we go on to the next one you're probably going to give us some really awesome
segue there but let's talk about uh scott apm before we move on okay let me tell you real quick about
scout apm they're big supporters of python bytes so we appreciate that very much
so if you are tired of spending hours trying to find the root cause of issues impacting your
performance then you owe it to yourself to check out scout apm they're a leading python application
performance monitoring tool apm that helps you identify and solve performance abnormalities faster
and easier scout apm ties bottlenecks such as memory leaks slow database queries background jobs and
the dreaded n plus one queries that you can end up if you do lazy loading in your orm then you say oh no
why is it so slow why are you doing 200 database queries for what should be one so you can find out things like that
and it links it back directly to source code so you can spend less time in the debugger and
killing logs and just finding the problems and moving on and you'll love it because it's built for
developers by developers it makes it easy to get set up seriously you can do it in less than four minutes so
that's awesome and the best part is the pricing is straight forward you only pay for the data that
used with no hidden overage fees or per seat pricing and i just learned this brian they also have
they provide the pro version for free to all open source projects so if you're an open source maintainer and you
want to have scout apm for that project just shoot them a message or something on their pricing page about that
so you can start your free trial and get instant insights today visit pythonbytes.fm
slash scout the link is in your podcast player show notes as well and please use that link don't just
search for them because otherwise they don't think you came from us and then they'd stop supporting the
show so please use our link pythonbytes.fm/scout check them out it really supports the show
definitely definitely and over to you brian all righty um i want to talk about talks a little bit
we haven't talked actually brought up talks for a while i don't think but uh there's a there's an
article on victor remark remark victor rymark's blog um about compile and use dependencies for multiple
python versions with talks and um it's kind of a kind of a neat idea i use talks for incorporating it with
um get get have actions a lot to be able to well and just locally to be able to test multiple python
versions and multiple versions of different libraries how they work together talks is great
for things like that um but one of the things that i didn't think about was doing pinning uh
pit like compiling pinned list or lock lists for dependencies for multiple python versions and so
this article walks you through kind of why you would want to do that but then also how to and the the little
trick here which i think is cool is that talks uses a environmental environment name called the env name
and so the there is a way to uh to get your to be able to specify use that to look at different the
talks environment that it created because it creates a little virtual environments uh when it's running but
the uh the neat thing about that is you can use it other places and the idea around this was to go ahead and
use um this article uses pip-tools but um but really i think you could use anything but to target a compile
like a pip-tools compile and come uh and send it to it's using pip compile and using pyproject.tomla as the
base file and then outputting to a requirements in in v name which is uh or a env.text or a like a
env-dev.text so you could do like a requirements with a requirements file essentially with um with your
environment uh specified in it uh you could in this example it's using a directory uh pumping them all
into a requirements folder with a directory but you could also do you could also do a directory and then
also i also like to have a requirements dash whatever so even if i had them all filed into a directory i usually
put something like requirements dash 312.txt or something like that um but having that uh be able to
specify it from the project um allows you allows the little trick to be able to say oh here's an example
of with the requirements dash i like that a little bit better um but to to have a requirements uh
uh um uh target within talks so that you can use that to compile um your project compile those and while
they're running uh you're instead of like in ci or something could grab those and instead of generating um a just
uh a just whatever it can find it's a pinned or pinned or a locked um set of uh set of dependencies
uh it might be a little bit more consistent so so that locally the and the idea would be then
locally you when you're testing yourself you can say hey i'm ready to update my dependencies
and then it'd regenerate the uh all of the all of the dev files and then or all the lock files and then uh
later um uh when you're when ci is running it doesn't look up dependencies it just like knows the fixed
links or the fixed versions so kind of a neat idea i wanted to highlight that um i also wanted to highlight
this because i i want to i like this idea but i want to do it with uv um and i want to i'd like to be
i think i'll play with this but if anybody else has time to play with this and see if they can get it
working with uv i'd love to see the outcome so yeah that's awesome i imagine you can because if it was
using pip-tools you know it's got the the pip compile behaviors it shouldn't be that hard yeah yeah
it's awesome yeah this looks great i love it what do you got for us you let's let's close it out with
something dark i did tell you it was the 13th didn't i yeah so i present to you a this is not exactly a
python thing but i feel like this is uh anyone who builds web apps or other types of apps and interacts
with you know users sort of thing so superset if you will so i present to you a catalog of dark patterns
for software dun dun dun dun dun dun dun dun says discover a variety of dark pattern examples sorted by
category to help you better understand deceptive design practices so there's some that you probably would
know like bait and switch and each one of these has at least one concrete uh like case study of evil
of badness of darkness let's say so the bait and switch one which says this tactic lures users with
an enticing offer only to change the terms unexpectedly so they've got a lift 60 off wouldn't
you like 60 off of your next ride just click here and sign up brian and then once actually your next two
ride that says right here yeah but then actually as you try to apply it it turns out it only count
counts towards 60 off the first ten dollars so if you like went to the airport it was 50 bucks it's like
well you know it's still for it for four yeah uh so that's not ideal no to me the classic bait switch is
the cable companies for internet or or anything like don't you want to add like a home phone like digital
phone and then you can add like the sports package and it's only five dollars more for the first you
know for the first uh six months and then it's like 150 more so i had one just like yesterday i i had an
email from my cell phone provider that said since you've been here like so many numbers of years we're
going to give you 10 off i'm like that's cool and i clicked on it and it was 10 off any of your case
pair purchases like so shady so shady so that i mean people probably know that one but there's other ones
that are um interesting like one that i really like is the roach motel okay so oh yeah what is that oh it's this
dark pattern usually used for subscriptions making it easy to sign up but nearly impossible to cancel
so there's you know you can't there's not like a just unsubscribe us button you've got to call
somebody and they try to talk you out of it like i'm a hat hat tip the cable companies again on this
right but yeah there's one one click subscribe but if you want to if you want to cancel please
come down to our office during hours of four and three exactly exactly and if you don't get through
the line of people backed up trying to get out of it then uh you'll you'll uh do that try again the next
next week so there's a bunch of these i'll do one more just the people go play with them disguised ads
oh i thought it was disgusting ads disguised ads okay disguised ads which are themselves disgusting but
the pattern is disguised so microsoft edge for example and i i feel like google this is towards google chrome
a thing towards i feel like it's also kind of reverse a lot of like google does that as well like
wouldn't you rather use this instead when you search for something anyway i'll give you the example that's
on the page so you may encounter not one but two dark pattern patterns when attempting to get google chrome
onto your computer when you have microsoft edge this happens when you have a empty install of windows
you have edge installed but not chrome and or i mean i feel like installing chrome itself is a dark
pattern that you should just avoid use vivaldi brave firefox something else but anyway that's not the point
there's there's two here and the first one is disguised ads the second one is confirm shaming and so
this is like a good case here so if you go over to google.com chrome
in edge and you go to the down you go to the like the where you get to download it it literally has
a built into the browser pop-up that comes out of the menu bar no that address bar rather it says
i hate saving money said no one ever microsoft edge is the best browser for online shopping
just by literally visiting the chrome page you get this pop-up that's like
integrated not into the html but into the ui of the browser that's so funny yeah so that's shady
that's one i kind of love the boldness of that though actually but i know and then if you go to go to bing
i believe this which is the default search engine and you just search for chrome you get
some results but then there's like this other part oh no this is actually in the start the the start
menu this is in the start menu so if you type chrome you like try to run chrome
there's a half of the whole start menu says try bing wallpaper switch to the browser recommended by microsoft
download edge here oh that's rough uh yeah so what's cool is it says look here like it kind of highlights
the various patterns that are here and then like other companies that do similar patterns anyway i think
this is interesting reading i think figuring out like just being aware of this stuff so if you're
involved in building these things you're like hey guys people are going to not like us could we do this a
little bit differently you know sometimes marketing will win sometimes developers will win but so are
these dark patterns or or maybe growth hacking yes is this our yacht or is this a dark pattern
could it be both what could i incorporate these into no yeah it's a hashtag you win if you can get like
all dark patterns oh that'd be fun to try to be good growth hack because then you could appear under
every category it'd be like some like link free advertising exactly yeah anyway yeah this is what
i got for you kind of interesting nice extras you got any extras you want to share um the extra i wanted
to shout out was um was just i've been uh i've been i think i have my recording done for um for hello pie
test the only thing left to record is the summary at the end uh that i well i have the there's a few things i want
to like one extra video i want to record but i want to edit everything first so i'm in the process of
editing and uh keeping track of everything so that at the end i can go hey we went through all these
things um so um i want to make sure actually the the thing that i have left is i want to review all of
the command line flags that i use in the course um but i don't remember all the ones i've used so i'm
writing down as i'm editing so nice that's awesome uh but i'm on track for august 19th a few people have
ordered already thank you so much uh everyone that's ordered so far so uh love you my wife loves you uh
we went out to got coffee or off of money we got from this so beautiful yeah available for pre-order now
yeah uh what you got i have just a couple things
jingo 5.1 released so big deal well here is easier guardrails for authentication because having people
access stuff that was supposed to be authenticated but isn't as bad they didn't say that that's my words
the new and shiny login required middleware is available which enforces authentication for all views
yeah um better screen reader support better acml semantics
the second oldest ticket is now fixed with a long-awaited query string template tag
so these things are all good and let's see what's there
now i thought there might have been a cve or something in here but i don't think so
i saw django cve not too long ago security deal but it doesn't seem like it's addressed with this one
so it must have been fixed previously all right so that and then here's the bookend we started with
uh 3.12.5 being available well how about python 3.13 looking forward with release candidate one is out
so this happened a little bit ago but if you're out there and they say please test you have a package
especially a popular one please test it with python 3.13
ahead of time so we can do stuff about it and you're like oh it's betas i'm not going to take the
trouble i'm not going to worry about it well it's now officially stable in terms of features right they're
not going to add or remove things ideally unless they absolutely have to so you should be able to
properly start putting energy into testing and playing with this one and this one is a big deal
because this is the first free threaded python which is going to have significant effects on
runtime behavior not just does this api still work right so it's it's going to be worth testing with this
one all those other versions of python you have to pay for threading this one's free threading yeah it's
awesome finally finally it's finally it's free you just have yeah you have to pay by buying
other machines and running copies on them to get parallelism um no i so i was hoping that uv python
would have 3.13 there but it doesn't yet so well yeah that would all right uv team out there listen
astral come on astral what are you exactly let's let's get let's turn uv python into like this is how i get
the freshest python which is actually one of the things that's a little tricky like homebrew it takes
a week for that stuff to show up and other stuff yeah a week yeah who wants week old coffee no no
your threads are totally stale by then it's a good it's a goofy episode man it is all right i know you
got the joke for us this week so okay well actually um before we get onto this i was just thinking because
you you wanted when you were talking about django um i thought of a new uh of a a dorky joke so what
do you call a 17 year old insect
a minor a minor bug oh that's pretty good um okay so uh i saw this ars technical a is it ours or ars i
don't know ars technica i say ours but i you know now you say that i'm not sure i've ever heard anyone
pronounce it so okay i'm going with ours because it's lowercase ours technica uh an article parody
site clown strike refuses to bow down to cloud strikes bogus dmca takedown uh so there's an article
here um i wanted to check it out myself um so if you go to uh clown strike dot lol um and we'll refresh it
uh see if it it starts out looking like crowd strike but it has a little goofy hat on it um and
then if you i'm not gonna play the music now but uh if you play music it's got like some some goofy
little music that goes along with it and there's a clown that's it that's just it's just funny um uh but
uh now if you click on the left uh it tells you about all this well it tells you the the ars
technical article but it also talks about this story about how they had these takedown uh
crowd strike tried to take them down and it's just silly um there's some other stuff here too that i
think is just hilarious like uh uh the what scam advisor lists clown strike lol as uh highly trusted might be
safe it's like nothing there except for just this goofy little picture and um but uh but there are
some some some other stuff and you can read the whole story and all the letters about or all the emails
back and forth about the takedowns and actually um there i was surprised to find out that they had to
like cloud for cloud flare was uh was um was hosting this but it it like accepted the takedown at first
um and eventually back down but even after but after it got moved but i'm surprised that it got taken down
so fast because obviously this is a parody site um and parody is protected there's no way
like even a cursory look at this anybody would think this is a realistic uh yeah it's not trying
to impersonate it or anything like that yeah no just making fun of the situation and and i think that
they just probably i mean they really should have just ignored it because now clown strike is known and
we're talking about it and ours technique is talking about anyway exactly it's the barber strength
and the end effect right yeah so oh boy anyway yeah i mean i'm somewhat sympathetic to crowd strike
but this is this is a bad look you know if you've got to write native code that runs in the kernel
like the smallest mistake and it has to be like updated within hours of you learning new information
i don't know it's it's tough it's apparently it's one of the the best antivirus systems out there that
actually works and isn't just you know you want to talk dark patterns like a lot of this antivirus
clean your computer stuff is really shady but boy did they cause a problem and i would not want to be in
their shoes no well i don't know i mean a couple weeks of shame over you get billions of dollars to
pay for that shame so yeah i think they're gonna get a lot of lawsuits from a lot of angry fortune 500
companies and even if they win defending them it's gonna it's gonna hurt them bad if it doesn't kill
them it's gonna hurt them bad so okay so yeah sympathies out there for somebody some
a little bit a little bit a little bit but i feel like they've certainly earned this website and wow i
i didn't know lol was the top level domain yeah it's funny laugh yeah it makes me laugh wonder what
that stand what is what it is what is it like a country is it literally lol like laugh out loud or is it
because they're like dot pizza is the top level domain as well which just seems wrong oh that does
does seem wrong really i think so i'll have to check that out like pepperoni dot pizza and like
you know hawaiian honestly yeah pineapple maybe we need to get some domains yeah anyway okay okay awesome
thanks for sharing this is great all right thanks for being here like always thank you bye bye